Added article "Web Resource Requested" (#1808)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/webresourcerequested.md

Use this technology to do X.  When you want do extra beyond Basic Authentication.

What UX feature does this provide for your app?

What is "request", what is a "web resource request", what is a "web resource", & "response", when use them?

During navigation among URIs, use the `WebResourceRequested` event and the `WebResourceResponseReceived` event.

**Terminology:**

| Term | Definition |
|---|---|
| request | x |
| web resource request | x |
| web resource | x |
| response | x |
| `WebResourceRequested` event | Fired when a web resource is requested by the WebView2 control.  The WebView2 control fires this event.  Your host app listens for this event and then handles this event to do X. |
| `WebResourceResponseReceived` event | Fired when a web resource response is received by the WebView2 control.  The WebView2 control fires this event.  Your host app listens for this event and then handles this event to do Y. |

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Sending requests to the web server

Author: ```suggestion
## Sending requests to the web server from host app
```

---
title: Custom management of network requests
description: Using the WebResourceRequested event and the WebResourceResponseReceived event in WebView2 apps.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
ms.date: 04/29/2022
---
# Custom management of network requests
<!--
# Custom management of network requests and responses in WebView2
# Managing network requests in WebView2
# Navigating with web resource request and response events
-->

<!-- todo
writer: add arrows to diagrams
writer: read through body content
-->

> The Microsoft Edge WebView2 control lets you interact with and modify network requests.  You can either provide a response or modify the network request using the `webResourceRequested` and `webResourceResponseReceived` events.  There is also special functionality that allows you to navigate with specific network requests using the `NavigateWithWebResourceRequest API`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Microsoft Edge WebView2 control lets you interact with and modify network requests.  You can either provide a response or modify the network request using the `WebResourceRequested` and `WebResourceResponseReceived` events.  There is also special functionality that allows you to navigate with specific network requests using the `NavigateWithWebResourceRequest API`.

```

This article describes how you can modify network requests.  Use this API and approach to:
* Upload local file content to your app to add support for offline functionality.
* Block content in a webpage, such as specific images.
* Fine-tune authentication for specific pages.

**Terminology:**

| Term | Definition |
|---|---|

> | intercept | Your host app can intercept (receive) a request that is sent from the WebView2 control to the HTTP server, read or modify the request, and then send the unchanged or modified request to the HTTP server (or to local code instead of the HTTP server). |

Reviewer: The host app doesn't 'receive' the request, it intercepts it before it's sent to the server. I think receive is the wrong word here and only would cause confusion.

| override | Your host app can override (ignore) a response that's sent from the HTTP server to the WebView2 control, and send a custom response to the WebView2 control instead of the original response. |

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## When to use custom vs. basic approaches

> The `webResourceRequested` and `webResourceResponseReceived` events are powerful tools for various scenarios.  This is a low-level API that gives more control, but requires more coding and is complicated to use.  For some common scenarios, we provide APIs that are easier to use and are optimized for those specific scenarios, and we recommend you use those rather than the APIs discussed in this article.

Reviewer: "These are low-level APIs" as we are talking about two events or just mention "WebResourceRequested" as that's the only event that lets you control.

> Instead of using the WebResourceRequested APIs, you can use these other approaches that are build on top of `WebResourceRequested` and related APIs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of using the WebResourceRequested APIs, it's preferable to use these other approaches:

```

* [Basic Authentication](/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/basic-authentication?tabs=csharp)
* [General navigation](/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/navigation-events) 
* [Managing cookies in WebView2](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2)

> 

Reviewer: * [
```suggestion

* [Setting user agent string](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2settings?view=webview2-winrt-1.0.1185.39#useragent)
```

> * [CoreWebView2Settings.UserAgent Property](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2settings#useragent) - Sets the user agent string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Setting the user agent string](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2settings#useragent) - 

```

Author: @yildirimcagri - link text policy: link text in this repo must match the destination heading.

Author: @yildirimcagri - going with:
```
* Setting the user agent string.  See [UserAgent Property](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2settings#useragent).
```

> **Note:** If you are using virtually mapped URLs, using the `WebResourceRequested` event isn't supported.  This is because the `WebResourceRequested` event isn't fired for 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** For URLs with virtual hostnames, using the `WebResourceRequested` event isn't supported.  This is because the `WebResourceRequested` event isn't fired for 

```

the [SetVirtualHostNameToFolderMapping method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_3#setvirtualhostnametofoldermapping).<!-- ClearVirtualHostNameToFolderMapping -->

### How your host app, the WebView2 control, and the HTTP server interact

The WebView2 control sits in between your host app and the HTTP server.  When your host app navigates to a URI, the WebView2 control sends a request to the HTTP server.  The HTTP server then sends a response to the WebView2 control.

<!-- lexicon for the 3 actors:
the HTTP server
the WebView2 control
the host app
-->

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Intercepting a request (to monitor or modify it)

> Your host app can _intercept_ (receive) a request that is sent from the WebView2 control to the HTTP server, read or modify the request, and then send the unchanged or modified request to the HTTP server (or to local code instead of the HTTP server). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your host app can _intercept_ a request that is sent from the WebView2 control to the HTTP server, read or modify the request, and then send the unchanged or modified request to the HTTP server (or to local code instead of the HTTP server). 

```

> Intercepting the request allows you to customize the header content, URL, or the GET/POST method. The host app may want to intercept a request to provide optional content as part of the request that the WebView2 control doesn't know about.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Intercepting the request allows you to customize the header content, URL, or the GET/POST method. The host app may want to intercept a request to provide optional POST content as part of the request.

```

The host app can change the properties of a request by using this API:

# [.NET](#tab/dotnet)

* [CoreWebView2WebResourceRequest Class](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2webresourcerequest)

# [Win32](#tab/win32)

* [ICoreWebView2WebResourceRequest](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2webresourcerequest)

---

### What you can do with headers

A HTTP header provides important information and metadata about a request or response.  Changing [headers](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Glossary/HTTP_header) enables you to perform powerful actions on the network. 

> A [request header](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Glossary/Request_header) can be used to indicate the format of the response (such as the `Accept-*` headers), set authentication tokens, read and write cookies (sensitive information), modify the user agent, and so on.  A [response header](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Glossary/Response_header) can be used to provide more context of the message being sent. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [request header](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Glossary/Request_header) can be used to indicate the format of the response (such as the `Accept-*` headers), set authentication tokens, read and write cookies (sensitive information), modify the user agent, and so on.  A [response header](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Glossary/Response_header) can be used to provide more context of the response.

```

### Filtering the WebResourceRequested event based on URL and resource type

> In a `WebResourceRequested` event, you can specify a filter for the requests that the app is interested in based on URL and resource type.  If the host app uses a filter, the filter must be added before a `WebResourceRequested` event is fired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to receive `WebResourceRequested` events, you should specify filters for the requests that the app is interested in based on URL and resource type. 

```

> For example, suppose the host app is trying to replace images.  In this case, the host app is only interested in web resource requested events for images.  The host app would only get events for images by specifying the filter for images.  Another example is if the host app is only interested in all requests that are under a domain name like `https://example.com`, then the app can use the URL filter to get events that are associated with that site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, suppose the host app is trying to replace images.  In this case, the host app is only interested in `WebResourceRequested` events for images.  The host app would only get events for images by specifying the `resourceContext` filter for images.  Another example is if the host app is only interested in all requests that are under a site like `https://example.com`, then the app can specify a URL filter as `https://example.com/*` to get events that are associated with that site.

```

### Why would you want to intercept requests that are sent from WebView2?  

Intercepting requests sent from WebView2 enables you to further configure your request. The host app might want to provide optional content as part of the request that the WebView2 control won't know on its own. Some scenarios include:
*  You're logging into a page and the app has credentials so the app can provide authentication header without the user having to enter those credentials.  
*  You want offline functionality in the app so you redirect the URL to a local file path when no internet connection is detected.
*  You want to upload local file content to the request server via a POST request.

### Sequence for modifying requests

<!-- wiki page that points to the Visio source file: Documentation > "Notes about specific image files" -->
![Diagram of sequence for modifying requests.](webresourcerequested-images/sequence-for-modifying-requests.png)

1. The host app sets up a `WebResourceRequested` filter.

> 1. The host app defines the event handlers for `WebResourceRequested` and `WebResourceResponseReceived`.

Reviewer: Please fix the ordering numbers here.

Author: @yildirimcagri - are the rendered numbers correct?  
https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/webresourcerequested?branch=pr-en-us-1808&tabs=dotnet#sequence-for-modifying-requests

The Markdown tagging convention in our repo is all 1's.  The Contributor Guide says you "can" do it using all 1's: https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/help/contribute/markdown-reference?branch=main#numbered-list

1. The WebView2 control fires a `WebResourceRequested` event to the host app.
1. The host app listens for and handles the `WebResourceRequested` event.
1. The host app can modify headers at this point.  The host app can also defer the `WebResourceRequested` event, which means that the host app asks for more time to decide what to do.
1. The WebView2 network stack can add more headers (for example, can add cookies and authorization headers).
1. The WebView2 control sends the request to the HTTP server.
1. The HTTP server sends the response to the WebView2 control.
1. The WebView2 control fires the `WebResourceResponseReceived` event.
1. The host app listens for the `WebResourceResponseReceived` event and handles it.<!-- todo: arrow: "The WebView2 control creates a request for a resource that's needed for the webpage." -->

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
### Example: Intercepting a request (to monitor or modify it)
<!-- ## Example: Header modification when making a request -->

<!-- this example doesn't exist in the sample repo -->

<!-- note: the below intro is based on copying the main h2's Sentence 1 from above: -->

> In the following example, the host app _intercepts_ (receives) the document request that is sent from the WebView2 control to the `http://www.example.com` HTTP server, adds a custom header value and sends the request.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, the host app _intercepts_ the document request that is sent from the WebView2 control to the `http://www.example.com` HTTP server, adds a custom header value and sends the request.  

```

# [.NET](#tab/dotnet)

```csharp

> // Add a filter to select all resource types under http://example.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Add a filter to select all resource types under http://www.example.com

```

webView.CoreWebView2.AddWebResourceRequestedFilter(
      "http://www.example.com/*", CoreWebView2WebResourceContext.All);
webView.CoreWebView2.WebResourceRequested += delegate (
   object sender, CoreWebView2WebResourceRequestedEventArgs args) {
   CoreWebView2WebResourceContext resourceContext = args.ResourceContext;
   // Only intercept the document resources
   if (resourceContext != CoreWebView2WebResourceContext.Document)
   {
      return;
   }
   CoreWebView2HttpRequestHeaders requestHeaders = args.Request.Headers;
   requestHeaders.SetHeader("Custom", "Value");
}
```

# [Win32](#tab/win32)

```cpp

> // Add a filter to select all resource types under http://example.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Add a filter to select all resource types under http://www.example.com

```

         [this](
            ICoreWebView2* sender,
            ICoreWebView2WebResourceRequestedEventArgs* args) {
            COREWEBVIEW2_WEB_RESOURCE_CONTEXT resourceContext;
            CHECK_FAILURE(args->get_ResourceContext(&resourceContext));
            // Only intercept the document resources
            if (resourceContext != COREWEBVIEW2_WEB_RESOURCE_CONTEXT_DOCUMENT)
            {
               return S_OK;
            }

            // Set a custom header to the document request.
            wil::com_ptr<ICoreWebView2WebResourceRequest> request;
            CHECK_FAILURE(args->get_Request(&request));
            wil::com_ptr<ICoreWebView2HttpRequestHeaders> headers;
            request->get_Headers(&headers);
            headers->SetHeader(L"Custom", L"Value");
            return S_OK;
         })
         .Get(),
      &m_webResourceRequestedToken);
```  

---

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Overriding a response (to proactively replace it)
<!-- Overriding and providing new responses to WebView2 -->
<!-- ## Overriding the response and providing a different, custom response to the WebView2 control -->

> By default the HTTP server sends responses to the WebView2 control. Your host app can _override_ (ignore) a response that's sent from the HTTP server to the WebView2 control, and send a custom response to the WebView2 control instead of the original response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default the HTTP server sends responses to the WebView2 control. Your host app can _override_ a response that's sent from the HTTP server to the WebView2 control, and send a custom response to the WebView2 control instead of the original response.

```

### Sequence for overriding responses

<!-- wiki page that points to the Visio source file: Documentation > "Notes about specific image files" -->
![Diagram of sequence for overriding responses.](webresourcerequested-images/sequence-for-overriding-responses.png)

> 1. The host app sets up a `WebResourceRequested` filter.

Reviewer: Please fix ordering numbers here as well.

Author: @yildirimcagri - are the rendered numbers correct?  
https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/webresourcerequested?branch=pr-en-us-1808&tabs=dotnet#sequence-for-overriding-responses

The Markdown tagging convention in our repo is all 1's.  The Contributor Guide says you "can" do it using all 1's: https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/help/contribute/markdown-reference?branch=main#numbered-list

1. The host app defines the event handlers for `WebResourceRequested` and `WebResourceResponseReceived`.
1. The host app navigates the WebView2 control to a webpage.
1. The WebView2 control creates a request for a resource that's needed for the webpage.
1. The WebView2 control fires a `WebResourceRequested` event to the host app.
1. The host app listens for and handles the `WebResourceRequested` event.
1. The host app sets a response to the `WebResourceRequested` event handler.  The host app can also defer the `WebResourceRequested` event, which means that the host app asks for more time to decide what to do.
1. The WebView2 control renders the response as the resource.
<!-- todo: remove "then" from diagram step 8 -->

### Example: Overriding a response (to proactively replace it)

# [.NET](#tab/dotnet)

```csharp
// Add a filter to select all image resources
webView.CoreWebView2.AddWebResourceRequestedFilter(

>       "http://www.example.com/*", CoreWebView2WebResourceContext.Image);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "*", CoreWebView2WebResourceContext.Image);

```

webView.CoreWebView2.WebResourceRequested += delegate (
   object sender, CoreWebView2WebResourceRequestedEventArgs args) {
    

>    // Replace the remote image resource with a local one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   // Replace the remote image resource with a local one specified at the path customImagePath.

```

   // If response is not set, the request will continue as it is.
   FileStream fs = File.Open(customImagePath, FileMode.Open);
   CoreWebView2WebResourceResponse response = webView.CoreWebView2.Environment.CreateWebResourceResponse(fs, 200, "OK", "Content-Type: image/jpeg");
   args.Response = response;
};
```

# [Win32](#tab/win32)

```cpp
// Add a filter to select all image resources
m_webView->AddWebResourceRequestedFilter(
                L"*", COREWEBVIEW2_WEB_RESOURCE_CONTEXT_IMAGE);
m_webView->add_WebResourceRequested(
   Callback<ICoreWebView2WebResourceRequestedEventHandler>(
      [this](
         ICoreWebView2* sender,
         ICoreWebView2WebResourceRequestedEventArgs* args) {
         COREWEBVIEW2_WEB_RESOURCE_CONTEXT resourceContext;
         args->get_ResourceContext(&resourceContext);

>          // Replace the remote image resource with a local one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         // Replace the remote image resource with a local one specified at the path customImagePath

```

         // If response is not set, the request will continue as it is.
         wil::com_ptr<IStream> stream;
         SHCreateStreamOnFileEx(
               customImagePath, STGM_READ, FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NORMAL,
               FALSE, nullptr, &stream);
         wil::com_ptr<ICoreWebView2WebResourceResponse> response;
         wil::com_ptr<ICoreWebView2Environment> environment;
         wil::com_ptr<ICoreWebView2_2> webview2;
         m_webView->QueryInterface(IID_PPV_ARGS(&webview2));
         webview2->get_Environment(&environment);
         environment->CreateWebResourceResponse(
               stream.get(), 200, L"OK", L"Content-Type: image/jpeg", &response);
         args->put_Response(response.get());
         return S_OK;
      })
      .Get(),
   &m_webResourceRequestedToken);
```

---

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Constructing a custom request and navigating using that request
<!-- ## Constructing a custom request and navigating the WebView2 control using that request -->
<!-- ## Navigating with custom requests  -->
<!-- use-case: Navigating (vs. Overriding or Intercepting) -->

> The `NavigateWithWebResourceRequest` method, together with the `WebResourceRequest` event and the `WebResponseReceived` event, allows your host app to intercept and interact with network requests sent to and from the WebView2 control, while the WebView2 control interacts with the HTTP server.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `NavigateWithWebResourceRequest` method allows your host app to navigate the WebView2 control with a custom `WebResourceRequest`.  

```

> This API enables your host app to  either intercept a response that's sent by the HTTP server and substitute a custom response to your host app's code, or intercept a request that's sent from the WebView2 control to the HTTP server, and substitute your own custom request instead.

Reviewer: This description is incorrect. Something like,
```suggestion
You can use this API to create a GET or POST request with custom headers and content and the WebView2 will navigate with this custom request.
```
